Title: About

----

Text: This is me!

----

General: 

#General
Evening Class is a self-organising design education experiment; flexible environment where participants can cultivate common interests, develop their research and collectively shape the class’s agenda.

Participants reflect on their practices in wider cultural, social and political contexts and work closely with London’s different landscapes. They create their own audience, learn from it and engage with it.

The process of the group’s evolution is transparent and publicly observed. Evening Class intends to make the programme’s materials and references accessible to a wider audience.

The curation of the classes is expected to take many forms and explore different themes. Speakers and mentors are invited bi-weekly in relation to the current programme.

----

Contact: 

#Contact
For any questions please write to: (email: info@evening-class.org text: info@evening-class.org)

----

Participants: 

#Participants
The programme currently consists of 24 participants from different educational and cultural backgrounds, who form an active and collaborative partnership.

The current participants are  Aleena Jamil, Alexandra Lunn, Andrew Brash, An Yen, Ashley Kirby, Christopher Lacy, Chya Hsu, Daniel Shannon, Dina Silanteva, Eva Nazarova, Gareth Lindsay, Jack Clarke, Joe Nava, Kia Tasbihgou, Lauranne Cox, Margherita Huntley, Michael Wallace, Nicola Chemotti, Oliver Gabe, Oliver Long, Olya Troitskaya, Phoebe Barnicoat, Robbie Blundell and Simon Rogers.

----

Location: 

#Location
Evening Class takes place twice per week. It is currently located at (link: https://goo.gl/maps/YekS4VU5taB2 text: 48 Aberfeldy Street, Poplar, E14 0NU) with occasional meetings in other locations.

----

Finance: 

#Finance
Evening Class is a self-supporting group. The expenses are decided collectively and fluctuate in accordance with the group’s needs. At the moment they amount to £30 a month each.

----

Particpate: 

#Participate
Evening Class started with the intention to select twelve people from a group of applicants who responded to an open call. The first person would choose the second, the second would choose the third, and so on. We quickly realised that if our intention was to challenge the selection processes of conventional education structures, then we should begin with the (non-)admissions procedure. It was then decided to accept everyone who applied and we began as a group of twenty people.

In this vein, we have since admitted new individuals on two occasions which has allowed for everyone who had registered interest to be able to participate. Unfortunately it is not possible to continue this method indefinitely, so we are not currently accepting new members. We are trying to think of other possible ways in which to make our programme available to more people. In the meantime, if you are interested, please contact us and we will keep you up to date with our activities.