Title: Education films: screening

----

Date: 2016-07-21

----

Author: margherita

----

Coverimage: poor-stockinger.jpg

----

Category: reading

----

Tags: Film

----

Text: 

An evening of educational film screenings at 48 Aberfeldy St

1 *The Poor Stockinger*
Luke Fowler
2012 (60 mins)
suggested by Andrew Brash

*The Poor Stockinger, the Luddite Cropper and the Deluded Followers of Joanna Southcott* focuses on the work of the Marxist historian Edward Palmer Thompson, who, from 1946 (at the age of 24), was employed by the Workers’ Education Association (WEA) to teach literature and social history to adults in the industrial towns of the West Riding. These classes were open to people who historically had been unable to access a university education. E.P. Thompson became synonymous with the discipline of ‘cultural studies’ that emerged in Post-War Britain, along with fellow left-wing critics Raymond Williams and Richard Hoggart. Fowler’s film explores the issues that were at stake for progressive educationalists. Like Thompson, many desired to use their teaching to create ‘revolutionaries’ and pursue the original WEA values of delivering a ‘socially purposeful’ education. The film captures a moment of optimism, in which Thompson’s ideas for progressive education came together with those of the West Riding and its established tradition of political resistance and activism.

2 *You're Human Like the Rest of Them*
B S Johnson
1967 (20 mins)
suggested by Margherita Huntley
*You’re Human Like the Rest of Them * was modernist author Johnson’s directorial debut — a short film about schoolteacher Haakon, played by William Hoyland, who is painfully aware of his own mortality, and distressed that those around him, particularly his pupils, do not collapse with this shared knowledge. 

3 *Conversations in Vermont*
Robert Frank
1969 (30 mins)
suggested by Paul Elliman
https://archive.org/details/cbpf_000051_p2
In one of Robert Frank’s most personal documentaries, he examines his relationship with his children Pablo and Andrea. The two teenagers are attending a private school in rural Vermont rather than living with their parents in New York. In this loose collage of countless photos of the family intercut with conversations filmed in his customary, unpolished style, the director wonders aloud what the film is going to be about. “Maybe it’s about growing older, about past and present. It's some kind of family album. I don't know.” He asks Pablo and Andrea to reflect on their upbringing in a free-spirited artistic environment in New York, and on how their life has changed. Pablo explains that his relationship with his father was always difficult, and that he’s now trying to put it into words for the first time. Frank confesses that he and his wife Mary just went ahead and did their own thing, and Andrea replies that she would have preferred “normal” parents. But agreeing on what “normal” means proves to be challenging. Pablo and Andrea are now living a very different kind of life. In the city you have to do everything yourself, but in the countryside things are less chaotic and there’s a greater sense of community. Andrea is visibly happy when she’s singing in the local choir.

4 *Zéro de conduite*
Jean Vigo
1933 (40 mins)
suggested by Paul Elliman

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUkW1LBuQcg

*Zero for Conduct* (French: *Zéro de conduite*) is a 1933 French featurette directed by Jean Vigo. It was first shown on 7 April 1933 and was subsequently banned in France until 15 February 1946.

The film draws extensively on Vigo's boarding school experiences to depict a repressive and bureaucratised educational establishment in which surreal acts of rebellion occur, reflecting Vigo's anarchist view of childhood. The title refers to a mark the boys would get which prevented them from going out on Sundays.